<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE: It is auto-generated by `make update-man` -->

# grp(1) - break input into groups

## SYNOPSIS

Format numbers with digit grouping:

    grp -n [-t <term>] [<num>...]

Break text into groups of characters:

    grp [-l | -r] [-c <count>] [-s <sep> | -f <fmt>] [-t <term>] [<txt>...]

Options:

    -n          apply locale-aware digit grouping to input numbers
    -t <term>   terminator to append to each argument's result; default: \n
    -l, -r      start grouping from left / right (default)
    -c <count>  count of chars. per group - may be comma-separated list
    -s <sep>    either: separator to place between groups; default: a space
    -f <fmt>    or: printf-style format string to apply to groups

## DESCRIPTION

`grp` facilitates breaking input into *gr*ou*p*s:

First synopsis form:  
Prints numbers with digit grouping (thousands separators), as defined by  
the current locale.

Second synopsis form:  
Breaks text into groups of specifiable length joined with a specifiable  
separator or formatted with a printf-style format string.
  
Input is taken either from operands or, in their absence, line by line from  
stdin. Each operand / input line is processed separately.

## OPTIONS

  * `-n`  
    Treats each input argument as a number to format with digit grouping  
    (thousands separators), as defined by the current locale.  
    Input can be decimal integers or fractions, numbers in decimal  
    scientific notation, or hexadecimal integers.  
    Output is always decimal, with the number of input decimal places  
    preserved, and the locale's digit grouping and decimal mark applied, if  
    applicable.  
    See caveats in the following chapter.

  * `-t <term>` (default: a newline)  
    The terminator char. or string to append to each group on output;  
    specify `-t ''` to directly concatenate multiple results, if applicable,  
    and to not terminate the overall input with a newline.

The following options only apply to text processing, i.e., if  `-n` is not  
specified:

  * `-l`, `-r` (default: `-r`)  
    Determines if grouping should start from the left (`-l`) or right (`-r`)  
    of each operand.

  * `-c <count>`  
  `-c <count1>,<count2>,...[+]`  
    The count of characters to put into each group:
    - If only a *single* count is specified:  
      Breaks the input into fixed groups of the specified size until the input  
      runs out; starting either from the left (start) or right (end), as  
      controlled with `-l` or `-r`.  
    - With a *list* of counts:  
      The order in which the counts are applied is implied by `-l` or `-r`; for  
      instance, since grouping starts from the right (end) by default, the  
      last count in the list is by default applied first to the end of the  
      input.  
      - If the list ends in '+':  
        The list of counts is applied *cyclically*; that is, once all counts  
        have been applied, the process starts over with the remaining input.  
      - Otherwise:  
        Whatever is left of the input is put into a final group.

  * `-s <sep>` (default: a space)  
    The separator character or string to place between resulting groups.  

  * `-f <fmt>`
    The printf-style format string to apply to the resulting groups, as an  
    alternative to specifying a fixed separator with `-s`.  
    Note that it is the `-c` option that determines the partitioning of the  
    input into individual arguments, to which the format string is then applied.  
    If there are more groups than arguments in the format string, the format  
    string is applied cyclically.

## NUMBER-FORMATTING CAVEATS

- Environment variables `LC_NUMERIC` and, indirectly, `LANG` or `LC_ALL`  
  control the active locale with respect to number formatting. Not all  
  locales define digit grouping, notably not the `C` and `POSIX`  
  locales. However, even the definition of real-world locales such as  
  `de_DE.UTF-8` (Germany) is inconsistent across platforms, and uses  
  digit grouping on some (e.g., Linux), but not others (e.g., OSX).  

- Since round-trip number conversion is involved, rounding errors can be  
  introduced. To be safe, limit numbers to 15 significant digits.  

## LICENSE

For license information, bug reports, and more, visit this utility's home page  
by running `grp --home`.

## EXAMPLES
      # Default operation: break into groups of 3 from the right, with groups  
      # separated by a single space:
    grp 1000000 # -> '1 000 000'

      # Apply locale-aware number-formatting with digit grouping:
    grp -n 1000000.2 # -> '1,000,000.2' in locale 'en_US.UTF-8'

      # Format a US telephone number:
    grp -f '(%s) %s-%s' -c 3,3,4 '6085277865' # -> '(608) 527-7865'
    
      # Enclose each resulting group in delimiters:
    grp -c 1 -f '[%s]' abc  # -> '[a][b][c]'

